title: I'm going to grad school :)

---

This fall I'll be starting my PhD in Computer Science at The University of Texas
at Austin!

---

It's finally real - I'm going to be starting my PhD by the end of this year.
It's been a strange journey to get to this point so far. It's actually my third
time applying to UT - I didn't get in for undergrad, and I applied for PhD
admission previously in 2021. It's also been a windy road in terms of realizing
that I wanted a career in research/academia. When I first entered undergrad, I
thought that I was going to go do a PhD immediately after, but after my second
year I decided that I just wanted a career as a software engineer instead. We've
now come full circle, and I empirically know that I enjoy researching and
experimenting a bit more than product-focused engineering. At the start of 2024,
I decided that I'll never meet my goals unless I work towards them (profound, I
know), so I charted out a year long plan - a step-by-step approach to gain
admission into a PhD program. I'd like to write more about what my plan was, and
how I went about it, but suffice to say, having a plan helped. I can't say that
it's all sunshine and roses - there are a few rejections I'm pretty bummed
about - but the hard work did pay off, and I'm so hyped to go join the program
at UT Austin. The labs I've talked to so far are working on some really cool
problems, and as someone who's cumulatively lived in Austin for almost 16 years,
I think it's not a bad place to live\*. The weather here
definitely agrees with me, and I have an awesome community here.

This journey has taught me so much about myself. I better understand my
strengths and weaknesses, and I have so much more clarity about how I want to
grow in the future. At the end of undergrad I often felt consumed by this sense
of insecurity - that there was so many things I didn't know. Now, I _know_ that
there's so much I don't know, but I also feel confident that there's nothing
that can't be learned - it's just a matter of time and effort.

I'm so very grateful to be surrounded by so many supporting people who've helped
me come this far. I'm excited to have the opportunity to make them all proud and
succeed in the next phase of this endeavor!

<div style="color: grey; font-style: italic;">

\* Heavy disclaimer, I am a cis-male in a heterosexual marriage. I am a person of
color, but Texas has a large population of Indian people. Texas has a lot of
issues, especially around access to critical healthcare, which
disproportionately affect women, transfolk, and other marginalized groups. I
carry a lot of privilege in being able to exist in Texas, and it's not lost on
me that not everyone would be able to accept this opportunity. I hope things
change.

</div>
